# Chapter 1.1
## 1.2-1
Github is a source control application that relies on algorithmic content provided by the git version control system.  
Git relies heavily on algorithmic content to produce diff files between developer commits. There are 4-differnet algorithms that git can use to compute diffs. They are based on a variant of a dynamic programming algorithm solving the longest common subsequence problem. There are many approaches to solving the longest common subsequence problem, but one approach uses memoization and top-down lcs solution. 

## 1.2-2
Given an input of size $n$, we assume that insertion sort runs in $8n^2$ time and merge sort runs in $64n \cdot lg(n)$ time. To determine which for values of $n$ insertion sort is faster than merge sort, we model the solution using a simple equality: 

$$
8n^2 = 64n \cdot lg(n)\\
n^2 = 8n \cdot lg(n)\\
n = 8 \cdot lg(n)
$$
It is not possible to sovle this problem using elementary algebra, but it can be approximated numerically by trial and error. 

$$ 
n = 32 \implies 8 \cdot lg(32) = 40  \\ 
n = 64 \implies 8 \cdot lg(64) = 48 \\
n = 48 \implies 8 \cdot lgn(48) \approx 44.7\\
n = 40 \implies 8 \cdot lg(40) \approx 42.6\\
n = 44 \implies 8 \cdot lg(44) \approx 43.7 \\
n = 43 \implies 8 \cdot lg(43) \approx 43.4 \\
$$

Having approximated a solution for n, we conclude that merge sort is faster for $n \geq 44 $ insertion sort is faster for  $n < 44$.  


## 1.2-3
Let algorithm $A$ have a runtime of $T_A(n) = 100n^2$ and algorithm B have a runtime of $T_B(n) = 2^n$, where $n \in \Z^+$ denotes the input size. 
We wish to compute the smallest value of $n$ s.t. $T_A(n) < T_B(n)$. 
Using base 2 logarithms, we simplify: 

$$ 
100 n^2 < 2^n\\
lg(100 \cdot n²) < 1 \cdot n  \\
lg(100) + lg(n^2) < n\\
lg(100) + 2 \cdot lg(n) < n
$$ 

We approximate a solution by testing candidates of n as in question by starting with the smallest positive integer that is a power of 2 [1.2-2](##1.2-2). \

Let $n = 2$. 

$$
n = 2 \implies lg(100) + 2 \approx 8.64 < 2 \\
n = 4 \implies lg(100) + 4 \approx 10.64 < 4 \\
n = 8 \implies lg(100) + 6  \approx 13.64 < 8\\
n = 16 \implies lg(100) + 8 \approx 14.64 < 16 \\ 
$$

Since $13.64 < 8$ is false for $n = 8$, We conclude that the smallest $n$ such that $T_A(n) < T_B(n)$ is $16$ \
Steps $n = 4, n = 8$ are not necessary but show guessing strategy for completeness.   